[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: So,
let's start at blogpost.js.
So a lot of stuff going on in this file,
right?
Tons of stuff going on here that
we didn't really talk about.
And if you don't really know Angular too
well, then you're really not gonna know
what's going on here, so
that was intentional, and I'm sorry.
But you definitely learned some stuff,
guarantee you did.
So, the stuff that was here,
let's talk about it.
So we have the state provider, and
the only thing we had different here was,
before we talk about the controllers,
I have this resolve block.
Anybody know what resolve does?
>> Speaker 2: It allows you
to create injectables for
the controller you're going to use
that have to be promises and have
to be resolved before the route finishes
before you start rendering, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so, all that's right
except for they don't have to be promises.
They can be anything.
>> Speaker 2: They can be anything?
>> Scott Moss: They can be anything.
You can return anything, but you're right.
So, the way resolve works is an object
that takes these properties and
these properties are strategically named,
name is important.
So, they are functions
that just return a value.
And whatever that value is, whether it's a
promise or some static synchronous value,
that value is going to be attached to
this name of this property here and
injected into the matching
controller on the route.
So, the behavior is, if it's a promise,
the resolved value will be attached.
If it fails,
then it just won't go to the route.
So, either way,
this routes right here will not load up
until all these resolve
functions come back.
So, it'll just sit there and wait.
So, at this directive,
we know was not supposed
to load up until it had this, that
it's guaranteed that that will happen.
It will never load up until this happens.
So this is good in some cases,
not so good in other cases,
especially if you have ten things
here that are resolving here.
You're sitting here
looking at a blank screen,
our loading indicator is kind of not fun.
So, there are better ways around that,
but that's what resolve is doing.
So because of that, that's why I put this
note right here that says you need to make
a one off controller for resolving.
Did anybody get that when I said that,
like a one off controller, right?
Cuz I didn't want you to go like bring
the director's controller in here, or
to go make another class and
put that in here.
This is a one off anonymous controller for
the specific reason of only taking
the post, this post right here is this
post, and binding it to either to this or
scope, whatever you want,
just so that we can put it here.
That's what's happening.
So, let me walk you through it again.
So, this controller now belongs
to this template, right?
And because of that,
we can access the scope properties on
this controller, through this template.
So, we have this post attribute, and
we'll talk about that in a minute.
We can pass in the scope.post here,
which is an object.
But inside this actual direct,
if there's another controller in there
that has its own functionality, but we're
talking about on the outside right now.
Any questions on that?
>> Speaker 3: Steven P is asking
a question about why can't
we resolve it in its own controller?
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
that's a good question.
Why can't we resolve it
in its own controller?
The whole point of resolve is to
limit a template from loading up
before something happens.
So, if we resolve it in the controller,
then it's already too late.
That means if the controller's loaded up,
that means the directive
already loaded up.
So therefore, we really wouldn't be
resolving it, already loaded up.
I mean, you could hack it.
And you can have it to where you have
your directive has a dynamic template.
Where you say okay, by default,
the directive's template is nothing.
It's a blank screen, or
it's this placeholder or whatever.
And then I'm gonna go to the server in the
controller, come back, then when I come
back, now I'm going to recompile your
template and your template is now this.
So, you could do that.
That's kind of hacky, but still,
it's not the same as resolve,
because resolve actually prevents
the URL from changing as well.
Whereas, the URL will still change, you
just wouldn't see anything on the screen,
or whatever you wanted to see.
So yeah, but if we did it in the other
controller, it's already too late.
>> Speaker 3: Cool, thanks.
>> Scott Moss: Any other questions?
>> Scott Moss: Okay, cool.
So stateParams creates an object of
all the parameters in the URL, so
this is a parameter, the title parameter.
So if I say stateParams.title,
I get whatever this value is, all right?
So that's why I did this
de-structure in here.
And then this right here is
just getting rid of the dash
delimited and
putting a space back into it.
Because if you look at the blog posts.
>> Scott Moss: But that's not valid URL.
So, they're dash delimited on the URL.
So, that's what that red x is doing,
it's getting rid of those dashes,
converting it back to spaces.
So, I can find them inside
the collection a lot easier.
Something you would
normally do on the backend.
But we don't really have a backend so
I did it here.
And then I'm just gonna
say return Posts.getOne.
So, all this is already here for you.
Posts.getOne, we made this
method on the last one.
So, it's just getting one post.
Which will either look in the array if
it's there, or go to the server and
get it if it's not.
>> Scott Moss: And then of course,
to register our blog post directive.
I think that might have
already been there, too.
I'm not sure.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on this file?
All right, let's go to BlogPostDirective.
So, a little bit of new stuff here too,
probably had to do some reading up
if you didn't know Angular too well.
Cuz a feature that you would need in
here was actually recently released.
So, had to do some reading
on that if you didn't know.
But so, basically, this is just a regular
directive that we've always had.
The template, the style and
the controller, nothing new there.
The only thing new that's worth mentioning
is we actually put something
on the scope here, right?
So, how you knew this was, actually,
was here for your already?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, it was.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, okay, never mind.
So I'll talk about it anyways.
So, the reason this is here is so
that we can pass in data
into our component, right?
So, we define,
whatever we put on the scope is gonna
be an attribute that we
can use on the directive.
That's how we can use this post attribute
here, because we said so in the scope.
And then, why is it doing that?
And then because we said its value is this
equal sign here, that means we're gonna
pass in some type of object or whatever,
and it's gonna be two way data binding.
So, if we change the value of that
passing object in the directive,
it's also gonna change on the outside.
If we change it on the outside, it's
also gonna change inside the directive.
It's two way data binding.
That's what that equal sign means.
If we did a at sign, that means we are
just gonna pass in one way data binding.
So if it changes on the outside,
it'll change on the inside,
but not the other way around.
All right, it's usually for primitives, so
if you're passing a number or a string,
but it's also a better way to do that,
too.
And then the other one is ampersand.
This is like I want to pass in a function.
So I want posts to be a function
that's on a controller somewhere else.
This one's kind of confusing to use,
I literally avoid it at all times.
So, it's usually this or nothing else for
me, even if it's a static,
there's another way to get static
properties than using the at sign.
You can just use the add or attributes.
Cool, so the one that you might
have to do was bind to controller.
So, does anybody know what that is?
>> Speaker 4: It's the thing that binds
that scope to the controller you specify.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly, so it'll take
whatever properties are on the scope
definition and bind it to the controller.
So now it's under our control,
we can say this.post.
That's what is that does.
This feature just came out like 1.3,
if we didn't have this,
it's kind of hacky to get it to work,
cuz the controller actually runs before
the link function, because the scope,
you get access to the scope here.
This is where you get access to
the scope and the link function.
So, you say scope, but by the time
this runs, the controller would have
already ran, so you'd have to do
some hacky stuff to get it to work.
>> Speaker 5: You can inject the scope
though in the controller, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
you inject the scope into the controller.
>> Speaker 5: I'm just deciding
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
but it might not be
anything until that runs.
You know what I mean?
You could inject it, but
it might not be anything, right?
You don't know.
>> Scott Moss: Because the linking, that's
why it's called a link function, as that's
the linking phase of the directive, so
our other control ran around already.
The linking of the scope variables has it,
right?
So, it'll just be nothing.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on this one?
>> Scott Moss: Okay, and then off to
the controller, which is nothing.
There's nothing there, really.
I don't think this
controller does anything.
If you did some fancy stuff in here,
that's cool, you should share, but
I couldn't think of anything
to do with the blog.
I mean, I could've made a side widget and
you can share to Facebook or something,
but I didn't feel like doing all that.
So yeah, nothing here, but
it's nice just to have it just in
case we want to add some stuff.
And then of course, this will not
work if we didn't go on app.js and
register our blog post.
Blog post.name.
>> Scott Moss: All right, okay, so, again,
if we have all this working,
we should see this.
All right, so everybody has this?
Is everybody checked out
to the solution bridge?
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, we all got it.
Cool, any questions on this
before I move on to what's next?
Okay, so if you thought this one was hard,
it's definitely going to get harder.
[LAUGH] So, let's go back to the notes.
So we'll do a little bit of recap here
about what we've been talking about
because-
>> Speaker 3: Hey Scott, before we move
on, there was a question on the test
set up that you have for this exercise.
>> Scott Moss: The test set up?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, so
the spec.js that we have for blog post.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Let me see here.
P was wondering why we
need to import the styles?
>> Scott Moss: In the tests?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: I don't have tests for
this one.
If he has tests on his, not sure.
>> Speaker 3: Blogpost.spec.js.
No, yeah,
you didn't have anything in there.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
I don't have any tests.
>> Speaker 3: That was for us to do, so
maybe he was referring to
blog.spec.js that we got yesterday.
>> Scott Moss: Blog.spec.js.
>> Speaker 3: Also has
an importing the styles.
>> Scott Moss: No, it's not gonna import.
So it imports the directive,
which indirectly imports the styles.
>> Speaker 3: I see.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so
you don't need the style.
I mean, if you wanted to run
test against CSS, you could.
Theoretically, you could import
the style as a raw text and
run that through a RegX to
see if they change anything.
If you really want to get crazy,
you can totally do that.
But yeah,
there's no need to import the style here.